# dbt_twitter_organic_source v0.3.0

## Breaking Change
[PR #12](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_twitter_organic_source/pull/12) includes the following breaking change updates:

- The source defined in the `src_twitter_organic.yml` file has been renamed from `twitter_organic` to `twitter` to align with the default schema name used by the upstream Fivetran connector.
    - If you're referencing sources from this package, please update your source references as needed. See below for the full scope of source changes.

| **New Source Reference** | **Old Source Reference** |
|----------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| `"{{ source('twitter','account_history') }}"` | `"{{ source('twitter_organic','account_history') }}"` |
| `"{{ source('twitter','organic_tweet_report') }}"` | `"{{ source('twitter_organic','organic_tweet_report') }}"` |
| `"{{ source('twitter','tweet') }}"` | `"{{ source('twitter_organic','tweet') }}"` |
| `"{{ source('twitter','twitter_user_history') }}"` | `"{{ source('twitter_organic','twitter_user_history') }}"` |

- The default schema name has been modified from `twitter_organic` to now be `twitter` to more closely align with the default schema name generated by the Fivetran connector. Please be aware if you were leveraging the previous default schema then you will need to update the `twitter_organic_schema` variable accordingly. 
- All identifier variables in the `src_twitter_organic.yml` file have been renamed. If you’re using any of these in your project, please update them accordingly. The changes include: 
    - Prepending `twitter_organic_*` has been updated to `twitter_*` to align with the schema change.
    - The spelling of `*_identifer` has been corrected to `*_identifier`.

| **New Identifier Variable Name** | **Old Identifier Variable Name** |
|----------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| `twitter_account_history_identifier` | `twitter_organic_account_history_identifer` |
| `twitter_organic_tweet_report_identifier` | `twitter_organic_organic_tweet_report_identifer` |
| `twitter_tweet_identifier` | `twitter_organic_tweet_identifer` |
| `twitter_twitter_user_history_identifier` | `twitter_organic_twitter_user_history_identifer` |

## Under the Hood:
- All tmp models have been updated to reference the new source name `twitter` (previously `twitter_organic`). ([#12](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_twitter_organic_source/pull/12))
- Renamed the seed files to allow for more testing functionality. ([#12](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_twitter_organic_source/pull/12))
- Included auto-releaser GitHub Actions workflow to automate future releases. ([#12](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_twitter_organic_source/pull/12))
- Updated the maintainer PR, Issue, Feature Request, and Config templates to resemble the most up to date format. ([#12](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_twitter_organic_source/pull/12))
- Incorporated the new `fivetran_utils.drop_schemas_automation` macro into the end of each Buildkite integration test job. ([#9](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_twitter_organic_source/pull/9))

# dbt_twitter_organic_source v0.2.0

## 🚨 Breaking Changes 🚨:
[PR #7](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_twitter_organic_source/pull/7/) includes the following breaking changes:
- Dispatch update for dbt-utils to dbt-core cross-db macros migration. Specifically `{{ dbt_utils.<macro> }}` have been updated to `{{ dbt.<macro> }}` for the below macros:
    - `any_value`
    - `bool_or`
    - `cast_bool_to_text`
    - `concat`
    - `date_trunc`
    - `dateadd`
    - `datediff`
    - `escape_single_quotes`
    - `except`
    - `hash`
    - `intersect`
    - `last_day`
    - `length`
    - `listagg`
    - `position`
    - `replace`
    - `right`
    - `safe_cast`
    - `split_part`
    - `string_literal`
    - `type_bigint`
    - `type_float`
    - `type_int`
    - `type_numeric`
    - `type_string`
    - `type_timestamp`
    - `array_append`
    - `array_concat`
    - `array_construct`
- For `current_timestamp` and `current_timestamp_in_utc` macros, the dispatch AND the macro names have been updated to the below, respectively:
    - `dbt.current_timestamp_backcompat`
    - `dbt.current_timestamp_in_utc_backcompat`
- Dependencies on `fivetran/fivetran_utils` have been upgraded, previously `[">=0.3.0", "<0.4.0"]` now `[">=0.4.0", "<0.5.0"]`.

# dbt_twitter_organic_source v0.1.1
## Under the Hood
- The `user_id` field within the `tweet_user_history` and `tweet` source tables can sometimes be of type bigint. Therefore, the staging models now leverage the `dbt_utils.type_bigint()` macro to cast accordingly. ([#6](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_twitter_organic_source/pull/6))
# dbt_twitter_organic_source v0.1.0

The original release! This package contains staging models, designed to work simultaneously with our [Twitter Organic modeling package](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_twitter_organic) and our [Social Media Reporting package](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_social_media_reporting). The staging models name columns consistently across all packages:
 * Boolean fields are prefixed with `is_` or `has_`
 * Timestamps are appended with `_timestamp`
 * ID primary keys are prefixed with the name of the table. For example, the account table's ID column is renamed `account_id`.